# The Little Book of Common Sense Investing by John C. Bogle

The correlation between the growth of GDP and the growth of corporate profits is 0.98. (1.0 is perfect.) I assume that this long-term relationship will prevail in the years ahead.

**Note:** What is the correlation between market & GDP?


Warren Buffett puts the moral of his story this way: For investors as a whole, returns decrease as motion increases.

**Note:** What is warren buffets rule for investors regarding Gotrocks?


It is dangerous . . . to apply to the future inductive arguments based on past experience, unless one can distinguish the broad reasons why past experience was what it was.

**Note:** What did John Maynard Keynes say about Inductive arguments?


As you can see, without exception every decade of significantly negative speculative return was immediately followed by a decade in which it turned positive by a correlative amount: the negative 1910s and then the roaring 1920s; the dispiriting 1940s and then the booming 1950s; the discouraging 1970s and then the soaring 1980s.

**Note:** What is the pattern of the of speculative returns for the past 100 years?


The expectations market is about speculation. The real market is about investing. The stock market, then, is a giant distraction to the business of investing.

**Note:** What is the difference between investing and being speculative?


There are, then, these two certainties: (1) Beating the market before costs is a zero-sum game. (2) Beating the market after costs is a loser’s game. The

**Note:** What are two rules from bogle on playing the stock market?


If there’s anything in the whole world of mutual funds that you can take to the bank, it’s that expense ratios help you make a better decision. In every single time period and data point tested, low-cost funds beat high-cost funds. Expense ratios are strong predictors of performance. In every asset class over every time period, the cheapest quintile produced higher total returns than the most expensive quintile. Investors should make expense ratios a primary test in fund selection. They are still the most dependable predictor of performance. Start by focusing on funds in the cheapest or two cheapest quintiles, and you’ll be on the path to success.

**Note:** What is the primary test for a Mutual fund?


DIVIDEND YIELDS ARE A vital part of the long-term return generated by the stock market. In fact, since 1926 (the first year for which we have comprehensive data on the S&P 500 Index), dividends have contributed an average annual return of 4.2 percent, accounting for fully 42 percent of the stock market’s annual return of 10.0 percent for the period.

**Note:** What percent of returns come from Dividends usually?


Fund managers typically report the traditional time-weighted returns calculated by their funds—the change in the asset value of each fund share, adjusted to reflect the reinvestment of all income dividends and any capital gains distributions. Over the past 25 years, the average mutual fund earned a return of 7.8 percent per year—1.3 percentage points less than the 9.1 percent return of the S&P 500. But that fund return does not tell us what return was earned by the average fund investor. And that return turns out to be far lower. Hint: Money flows into most funds after good performance, and goes out when bad performance follows. To ascertain the return earned by the average fund investor, we must consider the dollar-weighted return, which accounts for the impact of capital flows from investors, into and out of the fund.1 (Hint: Money flows into most funds after good performance is achieved, and goes out when bad performance follows.)

**Note:** What is the difference between time we did the dollar weighted returns?


In that chapter, I described three sources of return on stocks: the initial dividend yield and the earnings growth (together, “investment return”), and changes in the P/E multiple (“speculative return”).

**Note:** What are the three sources of a return?


A fund failure rate of almost 80 percent.

**Note:** What is the fund failure rate?


Reversion to the mean (RTM) is reaffirmed in comprehensive fund industry data. Other data on fund returns confirm the power of RTM. Consider Exhibit 11.1, comparing the returns of all actively managed U.S. equity funds over two consecutive sets of nonoverlapping five-year periods: 2006–2011 and 2011–2016. EXHIBIT 11.1 Reversion to the Mean, First Five Years 2006–2011 versus Subsequent Five Years 2011–2016

**Note:** Just how random is the performance of fund? And what does that say about RTM?


Composition of TIF Assets and ETF Assets, December 2016 Traditional Index Funds (TIFs)   Assets (Billions) Number of Funds Diversified U.S. stock $1,295   47% 67 16% Diversified non-U.S. stock 421 15 43 10 Diversified bonds 489 18 50 12 Factor/smart beta 423 15 129 30 Concentrated/speculative 132 5 137 32 Total $2,760   100% 426 100% Exchange-Traded Funds (ETFs) Assets (Billions) Number of Funds Diversified U.S. stock $477 20% 40 2% Diversified non-U.S. stock 287 12 94 5 Diversified bonds 355 15 196 10 Factor/smart beta 756 31 669 34 Concentrated/speculative 562 23 950 49 Total $2,438   100% 1,949 100%

**Note:** What are the different types if etfs and tifs?


“The greatest enemy of a good plan is the dream of a perfect plan.” Stick to the good plan.

**Note:** What is the enemy of a good plan?


We know that we must start to invest at the earliest possible moment, and continue to put money away regularly from then on. We know that investing entails risk. But we also know that not investing dooms us to financial failure. We know the sources of returns in the stock and bond markets, and that’s the beginning of wisdom. We know that the risk of selecting individual securities, as well as the risk of selecting both fund managers and investment styles, can be eliminated by the total diversification offered by the traditional index fund. Only market risk remains. We know that costs matter, overpoweringly in the long run, and we know that we must minimize them. We know that taxes matter, and that they, too, must be minimized. We know that neither beating the market nor successfully timing the market can be generalized without self-contradiction. What may work for the few cannot work for the many. Finally, we know what we don’t know. We can never be certain how our world will look tomorrow, and we know far less about how it will look a decade hence. But with intelligent asset allocation and sensible investment choices, we can be prepared for the inevitable bumps along the road, and should glide right through them.

**Note:** What are the common sense advice that bogle preaches?


